# QuantumProject
This is the Python code for our project on Quantum Cryptography for PHYC40020. This code demonstrates an example of QKD using the BB84 scheme developed in 1984 as the first QKD protocol.This involves using a one time pad encryption to securely communicate a private key from one party to another using Heisenbergs Uncertainty principle. 

Firstly, we showed a simple quantum cryptography example using a singular base with the two possible qubits being the photons polarized in the vertical or horizontal directions. We considered ALice and Bob who want to send a message to eachother. Alice sends horizontal or vertical polarised photons in a base and bob could measure them in the same base. The base being the beamsplitter the photon travels through. Alice and Bob would obtain the same result. 

Next we add an eavesdropper who doesnt know what base the photons are being sent at. So, the eavesdropper guesses a random base and measures. Because the eavesdropper doesnt know the base then he doesnt get the same result as ALice. The eavesdropper also caused the polarization to change when it measures them as the wavefunction collapses into one of the polarizations. Now the eavesdropper can try loads of different bases until it finds the correct one. When the eavesdropper finds the correct bases alice and bob will still get the same results but they won't know an eavesdropper has also got the same result. 

To avoid this we can use the **BB84 Protocol**. Alice wants to send her key to Bob. Instead of previously only using 1 base she instead decides to use 2 bases. Now there are 4 qubit states horizontal, vertical, diagonol and antidiagonal. Alice sometimes transmits photons polarized in the "horizontal/vertical" bases and sometimes in the "diagonal/antidiagonal" bases. Bob is similarly randomly changing the measuring bases without knowing the bases used by Alice. Now, Alice sends Bob the measuring base (not the polarization of the photon). Now Bob compares the bases he used with that of Alice. Only, the results where both have by chance measured in the same bases can the results be used. This is approx 50% of the time. This identical data can be used as a key.  
